---
layout: blog-post
title: Why aren't we all vegan?
date: 2024-02-08
excerpt: A video essay on the reasons why people aren't vegan

### Why aren't we all vegan?

#### Dump section
To be fair, if for some reason you are looking at the commit history, this might seem like a very weird, haphazard thing to post. However, it should also be said that you should not be snooping here smh.
Mention my own veganism at the end
I'm thinking of maybe dividing it in two parts, one where I explain why people don't accept the arguments for veganism and another explaining what their weaknesses actually are given that information

Even if this doesn't end up becoming a video, it is still valuable to get your thoughts in order.

---

#### Actual video contents - Why aren't we all vegan
- If you're clicking on this, then it's fair to say that you either are a vegan, or you aren't. 
	- If you are a vegan, then more likely than not you clicked on this because you'd like a fuller picture of why it is that other people have a hard time seeing something you see so clearly.
	- If you aren't a vegan, then I'm guessing you're looking for someone to take down the vegan movement itself, by laying out all the common sense reasons why most people aren't actually vegan.
- At this, point I must say that I will be probably be disappointing you either way, because my goal here is to criticize every which way.
	- <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">defuse/rephrase this, people will be riled up from hearing this. Vegans will think you're a concern troll and non-vegans will think you're a righteous prick. Probably a bad idea to say you only care about making things better yadda yadda</mark>
- Before all else I'd like to look at one of the more common and simplest arguments for veganism, which I've taken from [here](https://ea-foundation.org/blog/the-strongest-argument-for-veganism/)
	1. We shouldn’t be cruel to animals, i.e. we shouldn’t harm animals unnecessarily.
	2. The consumption of animal products harms animals.
	3. The consumption of animal products is unnecessary.
	4. We shouldn’t consume animal products.
- ~~This is a very strong argument, but I would like to unpack it in a way that evinces a variety of the argument that is more interesting for our purposes~~ <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">this is more useful for the second part of the video</mark>
- For the purposes of this video, I'll unpack the first argument a bit more:
	1. 
		1. It is bad for us to cause pain and harm to sentient creatures
		2. The animals we get animal products from are sentient and we harm them in this process
- Of course, this isn't synonymous, but I want to consider this version, and leave some other arguments for veganism. Either way, this accounts for a lot of people's
- So what is the point of this video?
	- In short, I will be trying too tease out the apparent contradiction between how simple and uncontroversial this argument seems at every step, and the fact that most people can't really present a coherent argument against it.
	- Again, there's something to defuse here. How will you prevent people from just going "I don't believe in it because I have this unassailable argument against it". So, find some way of saying, "let's assume for the sake of the video that there isn't a good argument"


#### Actual video contents - Veganism, a balanced take, or something...

--- 
After explaining how people view morality etc. go back and analyze some common arguments.


Overarching themes:
- Descriptive vs. prescriptive morality
- Potentiality
- How relevant someone or something is to our picture of the world determines how morally relevant they are
- Arguments against veganism:
	- Animals aren't as intelligent
	- We need it for nutritional reasons (false)
	- It's natural (wtf)
- The two tenets of the veganism position I will be examining
	- The unit of consideration in Ethics is consciousness. If a being is conscious, it has moral worth. This moral worth doesn't stem from things like intelligence or whatever.
	- Animals are conscious in the same way that we are, and that makes us ethically relevant/worth considering
- How to tackle the argument that we can also intuitively see that this is wrong?
	- It has to do with how you express potentiality. You appeal to some external principle of equality
	- So ethics should be the abstraction of the principle of potentiality. I.e. if I had enough bandwidth to consider everyone's individuality and knew all the facts, what would I want to have happen? Given that I don't have access to that information, how to best approximate it?
- Evolutionary perspectives and the selfish gene
	- W
- People run their moral code. The words and ideas part of their brain
	- This is why the marketplace of ideas is such a stupid idea. It relies on a profoundly mistaken view of human nature where we're at the helm and direct the behavior of our whole being, when in reality we are one component in a complex system, most of which is entirely unconscious.
		- This of course is related to Brian Earl's article
 - The all or nothing nature of moral identity and identities in general (image of thought or something. Don't actually mention it). How people see that as compromising something about themselves (both vegans and non-vegans alike)
- The problems with the vegan community:
	- Moral essentialism or something (don't actually give it a label)
		- Thinking in all or nothing terms

---
# TODO
- Avoid getting into too many prescriptive considerations in the first video. Stick to the fundamental question.
- Jonathan Haidt or some other descriptive account of morality from a psychological standpoint
- Read more on Brian Earl's theory of consciousness 
- Consider some objections to whatever ethical theory you craft around potentiality, namely:
	- Tensions between responsibility, promises and doing what maximizes